# Repository: 

### A Git repository (or "repo") is a workspace that tracks and manages files within a folder.

- To use Git for a project or application, you need to create a new Git repository.

- You can have multiple repositories on your machine, each with its own history and content, allowing you to manage different projects independently.

```sh
   git --version
   ```
- Is a command used to display the current version of Git installed on your system. When you run this command, it shows you the version number of Git, which can be useful for troubleshooting, ensuring compatibility, or verifying that Git is installed correctly
  
```sh
   git --status
   ```
-  Is a command used to show the current state of your working directory and staging area. It tells you which files have been modified, which files are staged for the next commit, and which files are not being tracked by Git. Essentially, it helps you see what changes you’ve made and what is ready to be committed.

  ```sh
   git unit
   ```
-  If you mean a basic component of Git, it generally refers to individual elements like commits, branches, or files that Git manages. For example, a "commit" is a Git unit that represents a snapshot of your project's changes at a specific point in time.

   ```sh
   git add
   ```
-  Is a command used to stage changes in your files for the next commit. When you modify files in your project, you need to use git add to tell Git which changes you want to include in your next commit. Essentially, it prepares your changes to be saved in the repository's history.

## Git Commit 

- We use the git commit command to save changes from the staging area into the repository.

- When making a commit, you need to provide a commit message that summarizes the changes and captures a snapshot of the work included in that commit.

   ```sh
   git commit
   ```

    ```sh
   git commit -m "my message"
   ```
- git commit -m is a command used to create a commit with a message.
  
- The -m flag allows you to include a brief description of the changes directly in the command. For example, git commit -m "Add new feature" creates a commit with the message "Add new feature," summarizing the changes you've staged.

- Ignoring files: You can tell Git which files and directories to ignore in a repository by using a .gitignore file. This is useful for files you don’t want to commit, such as:

- Secrets: API keys, credentials, etc.
- Operating System files: Like .DS_Store on Mac.
- Log files: Temporary logs generated by your application.
- Dependencies and packages: Files related to third-party libraries or packages
